







Join OpenAI










































Introducing ChatGPT research release

Try ChatGPT
Learn more










API
Research
Blog
About


API
Research
Blog
About









Join us in shaping the future of technology
View Open Positions








play Watch video







Developing advanced artificial intelligence systems requires people from a wide range of disciplines and backgrounds. At OpenAI, we’re always looking for curious minds that want to help us create safe and beneficial AI.

Read Interview Guide



        Core Values
      


Audacious
We make big bets and are unafraid to go against established norms.


Thoughtful
We thoroughly consider the consequences of our work and welcome heterogeneity of thought.


Unpretentious
We're undeterred by the “boring work” and not motivated to prove we have the best ideas.


Pragmatic & Impact-Driven
We’re a company of builders who care deeply about real-world implications and applications.


Collaborative
Many of our biggest advances grow out of work done across multiple teams.


Growth-oriented
We believe in the power of feedback and encourage a mindset of continuous learning and growth.






        Benefits
      


Health & Wellness

Health insurance
Dental and vision insurance
Flexible spending account for healthcare and dependent care
Mental healthcare service
Fertility treatment coverage



Life & Family

401(k) with generous matching
20-week paid parental leave
Life insurance (complimentary)
AD&D insurance (complimentary)
Short-term/long-term disability insurance (complimentary)
Optional buy-up life insurance



Culture & Development

Flexible work hours and unlimited paid time off (we encourage 4+ weeks per year)
Annual learning & development stipend
Regular team happy hours and outings
Daily catered lunch and dinner
Travel to domestic conferences












Open Positions



















OpenAI Residency


OpenAI Residency is a six-month program that offers a pathway to a full-time role at OpenAI for researchers and engineers who don’t currently focus on artificial intelligence. Residents are compensated as fully salaried employees for the duration of the program.
Applications are now open and we will hire on a rolling basis in 2023, offering quarterly start dates.
Learn more about OpenAI Residency











Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion



We believe the development of general-purpose artificial intelligence that benefits all of humanity must be carried out with a knowledge of and respect for the different perspectives and experiences that represent the full spectrum of humanity.
Our investment in diversity, equity, and inclusion is ongoing, executed through a wide range of initiatives, owned by everyone across the company, and championed and supported by leadership. We take this work seriously and are committed to continuously improving our work in creating a diverse, equitable, and inclusive organization.
In addition to our dedication to creating an inclusive organization on the human level, OpenAI actively pursues technical work that is aimed at improving our understanding of, and ability to mitigate, harmful biases learned by AI systems, and supports conferences and groups involved in such work in the larger AI community.












Featured
ChatGPT
DALL·E 2
Whisper
Alignment
Startup Fund




API
Overview
Pricing
Examples
Docs
Terms & Policies
Status
Log in




Blog
Index
Research
Announcements
Events
Milestones




Information
About Us
Our Charter
Our Research
Publications
Newsroom
Careers





OpenAI © 2015–2023 Privacy Policy Terms of Use


 twitter   youtube   github   soundcloud   linkedin   facebook    twitter   youtube   github   soundcloud   linkedin   facebook  







