







Will Hurd Joins OpenAI’s Board of Directors













































Introducing ChatGPT research release

Try ChatGPT
Learn more










API
Research
Blog
About


API
Research
Blog
About









Will Hurd Joins OpenAI’s Board of Directors 








 
May 3, 2021
1 minute read



OpenAI is committed to developing general-purpose artificial intelligence that benefits all humanity, and we believe that achieving our goal requires expertise in public policy as well as technology. So, we’re delighted to announce that Congressman Will Hurd has joined our board of directors. Will served three terms in the U.S. House of Representatives, has been a leading voice on technology policy, and coauthored bipartisan legislation outlining a national strategy for artificial intelligence.
Will brings a rare combination of expertise—he deeply understands both artificial intelligence as well as public policy, both of which are critical to a successful future for AI,” said Sam Altman, OpenAI’s CEO. “We are thrilled to add his experience and leadership to our board.”
Greg Brockman, OpenAI’s chairman and Chief Technology Officer, added, “‘AI public policy expert’ isn't exactly a common title, and Will is squarely one of the leading ones. We're looking forward to Will applying his unique expertise to help us progress our mission to develop and deploy AI to benefit everyone.”
I’ve been blown away by the scientific advances made by the team at OpenAI, and I’ve been inspired by their commitment to developing AI responsibly,” said Will Hurd. “I’m excited to join this thoughtful, values-driven company at the forefront of artificial intelligence research and deployment.”
After two decades of service in government and U.S. national security, Will is currently a managing director at Allen & Company. He’s also a trustee of the German Marshall Fund, and recently served as a fellow at the University of Chicago Institute of Politics. He earned a bachelor’s degree in Computer Science from Texas A&M University.









Authors

OpenAI








Filed Under

Announcements










Featured
ChatGPT
DALL·E 2
Whisper
Alignment
Startup Fund




API
Overview
Pricing
Examples
Docs
Terms & Policies
Status
Log in




Blog
Index
Research
Announcements
Events
Milestones




Information
About Us
Our Charter
Our Research
Publications
Newsroom
Careers





OpenAI © 2015–2023 Privacy Policy Terms of Use


 twitter   youtube   github   soundcloud   linkedin   facebook    twitter   youtube   github   soundcloud   linkedin   facebook  






