







DALL·E 2 Research Preview Update













































Introducing ChatGPT research release

Try ChatGPT
Learn more










API
Research
Blog
About


API
Research
Blog
About











DALL·E 2 Research Preview Update 
Early users have created over 3 million images to date and helped us improve our safety processes. We're excited to begin adding up to 1,000 new users from our waitlist each week. 



May 18, 2022
1 minute read
















Last month, we started previewing DALL·E 2 to a limited number of trusted users to learn about the technology’s capabilities and limitations.
Since then, we’ve been working with our users to actively incorporate the lessons we learn. As of today:

Our users have collectively created over 3 million images with DALL·E.
We’ve enhanced our safety system, improving the text filters and tuning the automated detection & response system for content policy violations.
Less than 0.05% of downloaded or publicly shared images were flagged as potentially violating our content policy. About 30% of those flagged images were confirmed by human reviewers to be policy violations, leading to an account deactivation.
As we work to understand and address the biases that DALL·E has inherited from its training data, we've asked early users not to share photorealistic generations that include faces and to flag problematic generations. We believe this has been effective in limiting potential harm, and we plan to continue the practice in the current phase.

Learning from real-world use is an important part of our commitment to develop and deploy AI responsibly, so we’re starting to widen access to users who joined our waitlist, slowly but steadily.
We intend to onboard up to 1,000 people every week as we iterate on our safety system and require all users to abide by our content policy. We hope to increase the rate at which we onboard new users as we learn more and gain confidence in our safety system. We’re inspired by what our users have created with DALL·E so far, and excited to see what new users will create.
In the meantime, you can get a preview of these creations on our Instagram account: @openaidalle.



Cover Artwork

DALL·E











Authors

Joanne JangOpenAI








Filed Under

Announcements










Featured
ChatGPT
DALL·E 2
Whisper
Alignment
Startup Fund




API
Overview
Pricing
Examples
Docs
Terms & Policies
Status
Log in




Blog
Index
Research
Announcements
Events
Milestones




Information
About Us
Our Charter
Our Research
Publications
Newsroom
Careers





OpenAI © 2015–2023 Privacy Policy Terms of Use


 twitter   youtube   github   soundcloud   linkedin   facebook    twitter   youtube   github   soundcloud   linkedin   facebook  






